README.md, before:

# JUnit5-Extensions
[![Maven Central](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/name.bychkov/junit5-extensions/badge.svg?style=flat-square)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/name.bychkov/junit5-extensions)

Useful features for testing with JUnit 5: autogenerating tests for reflections, resource bundles, serializable.

## Table fo contents
  * [Minimum requirements](#minimum-requirements)
* [Using in your project](#using-in-your-project)
* [Features](#features)
  * [Safely work with reflections](#safely-work-with-reflections)
  * [Safely work with resource bundles](#safely-work-with-resource-bundles)
  * [Check classes for Serializable](#check-classes-for-serializable)

### Minimum requirements
- Java 8
- Maven 3.2.5
- JUnit 5.3

# Using in your project

Add in your pom.xml these modifications

```xml
<dependencies>
	...
	<!-- other dependencies -->
	<!-- JUnit 5 dependencies -->
	...
	<dependency>
		<groupId>name.bychkov</groupId>
		<artifactId>junit5-annotations</artifactId>
		<version>1.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
		<scope>provided</scope>
	</dependency>
	<dependency>
		<groupId>name.bychkov</groupId>
		<artifactId>junit5-tests</artifactId>
		<version>1.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
		<scope>test</scope>
	</dependency>
</dependencies>

<build>
	<plugins>
		...
		<plugin>
			<artifactId>maven-surefire-plugin</artifactId>
			<version>2.22.0</version>
			<configuration>
				<dependenciesToScan>
					<dependency>name.bychkov:junit5-tests</dependency>
				</dependenciesToScan>
			</configuration>
		</plugin>
	</plugins>
</build>
```

Notes:

1) maven-surefire-plugin must have version >= 2.22.0

# Features

## Safely work with reflections

In current version JUnit5-Extensions supports automatically creation of JUnit5 test for controlling existence/accessability of constructors/fields/methods of Java-classes through Reflection.

### Problem description

Suppose you have a code in your project

```java
void clearCachedSettings() throws Exception {
	Field mavenSettings = MavenSettings.class.getDeclaredField("mavenSettings");
	mavenSettings.setAccessible(true);
	mavenSettings.set(null, null);
}
```

How can you be sure, that in next version `MavenSettings` yet contains the field with name `mavenSettings`?

This code is very fragile. Smells bad, do you agree? Yes, of course, this is excellent example of anti-pattern. But in some situations you cannot avoid Java Reflections.

### Solution

What can you do? Modify sample code so:

```java
@CheckField(targetClass=MavenSettings.class, value="mavenSettings")
void clearCachedSettings() throws Exception {
	Field mavenSettings = MavenSettings.class.getDeclaredField("mavenSettings");
	mavenSettings.setAccessible(true);
	mavenSettings.set(null, null);
}
```

Next time when you will assembly your project with annotation creates JUnit5-test that will control existence of field with name `mavenSettings` in class `MavenSettings`. If field not exists, JUnit5-test fails.

You can use annotations `@CheckField`, `@CheckFields`, `@CheckMethod` and `@CheckConstructor` to autocreate junit-tests.

### More samples

You can find yet another example of usage this annotations of JUnit5-Extensions [here: examples/reflections](./examples/reflections).

## Safely work with resource bundles

### Problem description

If your application supports multiple languages, you know about Resource Bundles. Localized strings are language-specific and stored in \*.properties (since Java 9 in \*.xml too) files and have a view

```properties
key1=value1
key2=value2
key3=value3
...
```

In java code these localized strings are used usually as

```java
private ResourceBundle bundle = ResourceBundle.getBundle("Messages", Locale.ENGLISH);

public String getLocalizedKey1() {
	return bundle.getString(key1);
}
```

All will be good when you developing an application. But after several redesign nobody can already say, that localiyed strings are used and that are obsolete and can be removed.

### Solution

```java
@CheckResourceBundle(baseName="Messages", locales={"en","de"})
private ResourceBundle bundle = ResourceBundle.getBundle("Messages", Locale.ENGLISH);

@CheckKey(baseName="Messages", value="key1", locale="en")
public String getLocalizedKey1() {
	return bundle.getString("key1");
}
```

With annotations `@CheckKey`, `@CheckKeys` and `@CheckResourceBundle` you can be always sure, that key exists in default locale resource bundle and all keys in specified locales of specified resource bundle are synchronized.

### More samples

Full example you can find [here: examples/resource-bundle](./examples/resource-bundle).

## Check classes for Serializable

### Problem description

In some cases some of your classes must be serializable (must implement java.io.Serializable). If class has no such interface, in most of cases java-compiler says nothing and an error in runtime can be acquired. 

### Solution

in java-package with serializable classes add file `package-info.java` with such contents:

```java
@CheckSerializable
package your.package.name;
``` 

When added, this annotation forced to run unit-test for check all classes of `your.package.name` and fails if any class not implements java.io.Serializable.

### More samples

[Here](./examples/serializable/) you can see full examples of usage JUnit5-Extensions annotation `@CheckSerializable`.

Commit message:

Note about RetentionPolicy=SOURCE added

README.md, after:

# JUnit5-Extensions
[![Maven Central](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/name.bychkov/junit5-extensions/badge.svg?style=flat-square)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/name.bychkov/junit5-extensions)

Useful features for testing with JUnit 5: autogenerating tests for reflections, resource bundles, serializable.

## Table fo contents
  * [Minimum requirements](#minimum-requirements)
* [Using in your project](#using-in-your-project)
* [Features](#features)
  * [Safely work with reflections](#safely-work-with-reflections)
  * [Safely work with resource bundles](#safely-work-with-resource-bundles)
  * [Check classes for Serializable](#check-classes-for-serializable)

### Minimum requirements
- Java 8
- Maven 3.2.5
- JUnit 5.3

# Using in your project

Add in your pom.xml these modifications

```xml
<dependencies>
	...
	<!-- other dependencies -->
	<!-- JUnit 5 dependencies -->
	...
	<dependency>
		<groupId>name.bychkov</groupId>
		<artifactId>junit5-annotations</artifactId>
		<version>1.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
		<scope>provided</scope>
	</dependency>
	<dependency>
		<groupId>name.bychkov</groupId>
		<artifactId>junit5-tests</artifactId>
		<version>1.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
		<scope>test</scope>
	</dependency>
</dependencies>

<build>
	<plugins>
		...
		<plugin>
			<artifactId>maven-surefire-plugin</artifactId>
			<version>2.22.0</version>
			<configuration>
				<dependenciesToScan>
					<dependency>name.bychkov:junit5-tests</dependency>
				</dependenciesToScan>
			</configuration>
		</plugin>
	</plugins>
</build>
```

Notes:

1) maven-surefire-plugin must have version >= 2.22.0

# Features

**Important common note**: all annotations *are defined with [RetentionPolicy SOURCE](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/annotation/RetentionPolicy.html#SOURCE)* and used in compile-time. After using they are **discarded** by compiler and **absent** in compiled (*.class) code.

## Safely work with reflections

In current version JUnit5-Extensions supports automatically creation of JUnit5 test for controlling existence/accessability of constructors/fields/methods of Java-classes through Reflection.

### Problem description

Suppose you have a code in your project

```java
void clearCachedSettings() throws Exception {
	Field mavenSettings = MavenSettings.class.getDeclaredField("mavenSettings");
	mavenSettings.setAccessible(true);
	mavenSettings.set(null, null);
}
```

How can you be sure, that in next version `MavenSettings` yet contains the field with name `mavenSettings`?

This code is very fragile. Smells bad, do you agree? Yes, of course, this is excellent example of anti-pattern. But in some situations you cannot avoid Java Reflections.

### Solution

What can you do? Modify sample code so:

```java
@CheckField(targetClass=MavenSettings.class, value="mavenSettings")
void clearCachedSettings() throws Exception {
	Field mavenSettings = MavenSettings.class.getDeclaredField("mavenSettings");
	mavenSettings.setAccessible(true);
	mavenSettings.set(null, null);
}
```

Next time when you will assembly your project with annotation creates JUnit5-test that will control existence of field with name `mavenSettings` in class `MavenSettings`. If field not exists, JUnit5-test fails.

You can use annotations `@CheckField`, `@CheckFields`, `@CheckMethod` and `@CheckConstructor` to autocreate junit-tests.

### More samples

You can find yet another example of usage this annotations of JUnit5-Extensions [here: examples/reflections](./examples/reflections).

## Safely work with resource bundles

### Problem description

If your application supports multiple languages, you know about Resource Bundles. Localized strings are language-specific and stored in \*.properties (since Java 9 in \*.xml too) files and have a view

```properties
key1=value1
key2=value2
key3=value3
...
```

In java code these localized strings are used usually as

```java
private ResourceBundle bundle = ResourceBundle.getBundle("Messages", Locale.ENGLISH);

public String getLocalizedKey1() {
	return bundle.getString(key1);
}
```

All will be good when you developing an application. But after several redesign nobody can already say, that localiyed strings are used and that are obsolete and can be removed.

### Solution

```java
@CheckResourceBundle(baseName="Messages", locales={"en","de"})
private ResourceBundle bundle = ResourceBundle.getBundle("Messages", Locale.ENGLISH);

@CheckKey(baseName="Messages", value="key1", locale="en")
public String getLocalizedKey1() {
	return bundle.getString("key1");
}
```

With annotations `@CheckKey`, `@CheckKeys` and `@CheckResourceBundle` you can be always sure, that key exists in default locale resource bundle and all keys in specified locales of specified resource bundle are synchronized.

### More samples

Full example you can find [here: examples/resource-bundle](./examples/resource-bundle).

## Check classes for Serializable

### Problem description

In some cases some of your classes must be serializable (must implement java.io.Serializable). If class has no such interface, in most of cases java-compiler says nothing and an error in runtime can be acquired. 

### Solution

in java-package with serializable classes add file `package-info.java` with such contents:

```java
@CheckSerializable
package your.package.name;
``` 

When added, this annotation forced to run unit-test for check all classes of `your.package.name` and fails if any class not implements java.io.Serializable.

### More samples

[Here](./examples/serializable/) you can see full examples of usage JUnit5-Extensions annotation `@CheckSerializable`.
